In this video, let us learn about asymptotic notations
asymptotic
notation is a very important topic in algorithm analysis because
in algorithm analysis we analyse particular function and
find its time function
So what happens if the time function is very complex
like (5n^2 + n * 2/3 + n + 2^n)
It's not easy
to understand and it is very complex to communicate to
others
So we need a simple method to represent time function
so that everyone can get a clear understanding of a
particular function and it's time complexity.
So what is the solution? The solution is asymptotic
notations
asymptotic notations are useful to represent the simple form
of a time function like this
particular function belongs to this particular time class. for example
2n^2 + n + 1 belongs to time
function big O of n^2 and 2 raised to k+1 minus 1
belongs to big O of 2 raised to n
Like that, we have already discussed different types
of time functions in the previous videos
Now let us discuss about different types of notations
The first one is big Oh, the big Oh (O) notation defines
an upper bound of a function
The second one is omega
The omega notation is used to define the
lower bound of a function and the last one is
Theta
The Theta notation is used to define the average bound of
a function
We can represent any function in the upper bound or average
pound or lower bound but ideally
We should always try to find the average bound of
the time function
If the average bound belongs to any of these time
functions we can straight away represent it using Theta
But many times we can't find the exact time class
for the average bound
In those cases, we can represent the time function using
upper bound or lower bound
For example if the average bound of an algorithm is
logn n^2 n^3 2^n
we can represent it using theta
Because these are exact time classes, we already know that.
But if the average bound does not belong to any
of these time functions we need to represent it with
an upper bound or lower bound for example
logn!
We don't have an exact time class for
So we can represent it using upper bound
and what is the upper bound of n!
It is n raised to n So, substitute n raised to n
instead of n! which will become Log n raised to n is
and log of n raised to n  is nlogn
So we can say that logn!
is big O of nLogn. Not,
theta of nlogn
that's it
This is how we need to use a symptomatic notations
to simplify time functions
If we find the exact time function, we can represent
it with theta
If not we need to use upper or lower bound
So that's all for this video
We will discuss each asymptotic notation in the coming
videos